---
title: "Exploring the Artistic Styles of Famous Children's Illustrators with AI"
published: true
usa_webp: true
header:
  immagine_tipo: "jpg"
  miniatura: "image"
  immagine_estesa: "image"
  immagine_fonte: "Photo credit: [**Samuele**](https://blog.stranianelli.com/)"
  overlay_filter: rgba(79, 79, 79, 0.5)
date: "2022-12-28 09:00"
categories:
  - machine-learning
  - stable-diffusion
  - image auto generated
tags:
  - machine-learning
  - stable-diffusion
  - image auto generated
---

For several weeks now, I have been using images generated by Artificial Intelligences to illustrate my articles. I have realized that I prefer colorful images with a kawaii style. Based on this assumption, I wondered if there was another style that suited me. I therefore decided to explore the world of children's book illustrators a bit. In this post, I report on my experiments, hoping that they may be useful to someone.

### Who are the most famous children's illustrators?

I must admit that I am not an expert. In fact, I am definitely out of my comfort zone. But by searching online, I found some lists. So I can report the names of some illustrators who seemed the most interesting to me:

1. Jon Klassen
2. Toni Pagot
3. John Tenniell
4. Richard Scarry
5. Eric Carle
6. Mo Willems
7. Chris Haughton
8. Oliver Jeffers

Well, now I have a list of artists to take inspiration from.

### Jon Klassen

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Klassen)

{% include picture img="jon-klassen.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a robot teaching math in a classroom, children book illustration, in the style of Jon Klassen" %}

```
a robot teaching math in a classroom, children book illustration, in the style of Jon Klassen
```

### Toni Pagot

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toni_Pagot)

```
an elephant reading a book, children book illustration, in the style of Toni Pagot
```

{% include picture img="toni-pagot.webp" ext="jpg" alt="an elephant reading a book, children book illustration, in the style of Toni Pagot" %}

### John Tenniel

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel)

```
boy in computer store, children book illustration, in the style of John Tenniel
```

{% include picture img="john-tenniel.webp" ext="jpg" alt="boy in computer store, children book illustration, in the style of John Tenniel" %}

### Richard Scarry

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Scarry)

```
a cat driving a spaceship, children book illustration, in the style of Richard Scarry
```

{% include picture img="richard-scarry.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a cat driving a spaceship, children book illustration, in the style of Richard Scarry" %}

### Eric Carle

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Carle)

```
a cow in times square, children book illustration, in the style of Eric Carle
```

{% include picture img="eric-carle.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a cow in times square, children book illustration, in the style of Eric Carle" %}

### Mo Willems

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mo_Willems)

```
a goat with glasses reading a book, children book illustration, in the style of Mo Willems
```

{% include picture img="mo-willems.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a goat with glasses reading a book, children book illustration, in the style of Mo Willems" %}

### Chris Haughton

link to his [blog](https://www.chrishaughton.com/blog)

```
a monkey watching the tv, children book illustration, in the style of Chris Haughton
```

{% include picture img="chris-haughton.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a monkey watching the tv, children book illustration, in the style of Chris Haughton" %}

### Oliver Jeffers

link to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oliver_Jeffers)

```
a penguin playing videogame, children book illustration, in the style of Oliver Jeffers
```

{% include picture img="oliver-jeffers.webp" ext="jpg" alt="a penguin playing videogame, children book illustration, in the style of Oliver Jeffers" %}

### Conclusion

Bene, queste sono le immagini che ho ottenuto. La cosa interessante è che lo stile dei disegni richiama, più o meno, lo stile dei disegnatori originali. Però non sono del tutto soddisfatto. Alcune delle immagini sono interessanti ma in generale non molto. Penso che ci sia ancora molto da migliorare, a partire dai prompt usati. Per esempio se uso un prompt più elaborato ottengo disegni più interessanti:

```
A penguin is drawing on a computer with Photoshop, in an ice igloo, with a window showing a sunset. Children book illustration, in the style of Oliver Jeffers
```

{% include picture img="prompt.webp" ext="jpg" alt="" %}
